# TSVPipe-Filter
## Table of contents
* [General info](#general-info)

## General info
This project is a programming assignment that enforces principles of good class construction to a simple but potentially very large database system.
The assignment has you think of the system in terms of API libraries and exceptions. It alsoasks you to think of the input and output in terms of “streams”rather than as internal data struc-tures. That is, you are asked to write your system so that it never holds more than a few lines ofinput at a time within main storage, but rather makes decisions and accumulates information asthe information is “passing by”. This is called the “Pipes&Filters” pattern. The Unix family ofoperating systems provides many shell commands that operate on this pattern. See:http://www.linfo.org/filters.htmlNote that Java supports a similar concept of streams and provides a package for using them,but they are not quite the same, and we will not ask you to use that part of the API. Rather, we willask you to use your existing knowledge of Java to explore the stream concept itself. Here, you willlearn to write them here from scratch, to better understand them.Streams are used for “Big Data”. They have some interesting properties. As the Java APIstates:1. Streams use little storage and create few data structures, but are best conceived of as a kindof pipeline through which data flows.2. Streams do not modify the incoming data at all. Methods that operate on streams just producenew streams of data that have been derived from the incoming stream. These new streamscan be larger, or smaller, or of different types. Or they may simply have aggregate datasuch as the minimum, maximum, average, or those values that are inside or outside someacceptable limits, or those values that have some other properties of interest (e.g., “All thesalespeople in Kansas.”)4
3. Streams can often be processed quickly and by a kind of LazyEvaluation pattern, such asfinding the first value that meets some criteria (“Is any customer named Bill?”), or such asfinding just the first N components that meet certain criteria. These are called “immediate”operations, since they don’t have to examine the entire stream. (The other operations arecalled “terminal”.)4. Streams can be arbitrarily long, even bigger than main store can hold. They in fact may neverend, like data that is generated continuously from physicalsensors, like speed or temperature,or from social processes that have no conceptual reason to stop, like political websites.5. Streams can be created, processed, and output in parallel(although we won’t do that in thisassignment).6. Streams can be thought of as a kind of Iterator pattern: as the stream “goes by”, the methodssee each component exactly once. However, unlike with a ListIterator, a stream has to be“revisited” if you want to backup, since it holds only a limited portion of the data, and it canonly go in one direction. This sometimes is a reason not to usethem at all.We will use as our example of streams a standard tab separatedfile, *.tsv, whose fields areseparated by tabs (’\t’) and whose lines are terminated by newlines (’\n’). Each line is a “record”.Each record follows the invariant that it has the proper number and types of fields, and that no fieldis allowed to have a ’\t’ or ’\n’ in it. The first line of the *.tsv file contains “headers”, that is,real world descriptions taken from the use case. For example, here is what the stream looks likeconceptually, where the tabs and newlines have been made explicit.Name \t Age \t Cell Phone \t Zip Code \nString \t long \t long \t long \nFrank \t 20 \t 2121117777 \t 10027 \nMolly \t 22 \t 2121115432 \t 10027 \nTony \t 18 \t 2010001123 \t 99876 \nAnn \t 19 \t 9171118421 \t 43210 \nThe above example is a little tricky to read. Note that the filedoes not have the four consecutivecharacters “\t “ in it.Instead, it contains, character by character: character ’N’, character ’a’, character ’m’, charac-ter ’e’, a single character for tab which we happen to write here as “⁀’’, character ’A’, character ’g’,character ’e’, another character for tab, etc.So, what really that stream looks like instead is just one long series of single characters, withsome of those single characters having special significance. In particular, we could write some ofthe stream more closely to what it appears like, with the “*” and “@” below representing the taband newline, respectively, which can cause special actions:...long@Frank*20*2121117777*10027@Molly*22*2121115432*10029@Tony*18*...However, the file as a whole is thoughtby the useras a stream of records, not as a stream ofcharacters. Even if the file has been stored as a small complete text file on external storage, it isstill processed one record at a time internally in the computer system. It is critically important5
that the file be properly formed. This is where the concepts ofAPI libraries and exceptions comein. Your system should not trust anyone to give it a properly formed *.tsv file or stream, so yoursystem will have to check it and complain about violations.
